---
title: "7Be measurements in agricultural soil using a low resolution NaI(Tl) detector"
collection: publications
category: manuscripts
permalink: /publicatios/2025-12-12-7be_borsoi
excerpt: 'This study demonstrates the viability of employing low-resolution NaI(Tl) detectors to detect and quantify 7Be in soil samples by employing the window-technique.'
date: 2025-12-12
venue: 'Radiation Measurements'
paperurl: 'https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1350448725002203?via%3Dihub' # Replace with actual PDF link if available
citation: 'Borsoi, Bruno Winicius, Bastos, Rodrigo Oliveira, Neto, Angelo Zanona, Rodríguez, Duvan Gil, Lopes, João Marcos Fávaro, Andrello, Avacir Casanova, Muller, Marcelo Marques Lopes, Pott, Cristiano André, Melquiades, Fábio Luiz (2026). 7Be measurements in agricultural soil using a low resolution NaI(Tl) detector. Radiation Measurements, 107591.'
---
7Be is a cosmogenic radionuclide used in gamma-ray spectrometry to trace short-term sediment movements, such as soil mobilization. Gamma-ray detectors with low resolution cannot distinguish photons with similar energies, making it challenging to detect 7Be using these instruments. When 7Be decays, it emits gamma rays with an energy of 477 keV, similar to those of other radioisotopes (228Ac, 462 keV; 208Tl, 511 keV) and of the annihilation effect (511 keV). For this reason, high-resolution detectors, such as HPGe, are typically used, as they can differentiate photons and distinguish the mentioned radionuclides which emit similar energies. However, unlike low-resolution detectors, HPGe detectors are much more expensive than other gamma detectors, both in purchase and maintenance costs. These constraints make the widespread use of 7Be measurements for soil erosion studies impractical on a global scale. In this study, we propose a method for analyzing 7Be using a low-resolution scintillation detector, specifically a NaI(Tl) detector. The method eliminates the influences on the 7Be energy window using reference from other spectral regions. The approach was applied to evaluate soil mobilization in two agricultural plots, one with terraces and the other without terraces. The results of 7Be were supported by the measurement of its half-life. Most of the 7Be activity in agricultural soil samples was above the minimum detectable activity, allowing an assessment of the spatial distribution of erosion and deposition rates across the landscape. Soil redistribution was quantitatively evaluated, indicating that terraced soil experiences less erosion than nonterraced soil.

[Download paper here](https://www.sciencedirect.com/science/article/pii/S1350448725002203?via%3Dihub)


# How to cite
```latex
@article{borsoi20257be,
  title={7Be measurements in agricultural soil using a low resolution NaI (Tl) detector},
  author={Borsoi, Bruno Winicius and Bastos, Rodrigo Oliveira and Neto, Angelo Zanona and Rodr{\'\i}guez, Duvan Gil and Lopes, Jo{\~a}o Marcos F{\'a}varo and Andrello, Avacir Casanova and Muller, Marcelo Marques Lopes and Pott, Cristiano Andr{\'e} and Melquiades, F{\'a}bio Luiz},
  journal={Radiation Measurements},
  pages={107591},
  year={2025},
  publisher={Elsevier}
}